Rootstock CLI (#199)
rsksmart/devportal: docs/04-resources/06-guides/rsk-cli/deploy.md

> ---

Reviewer: file name: deploy-with-cli.md

sidebar_position: 3
sidebar_label: Deploy Smart Contract via Rootstock-CLI 
title: Rootstock-CLI Deploy
description: "The rsk-cli enables you to deploy your smart contract" 
tags: [Rootstock-CLI, deploy, guides, mainnet, testnet, rsk, rootstock, dApps, smart contracts, solidity]
---

> ### **Step 1: Set Up Your Hardhat Project**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 1: Set Up Your Hardhat Project
```

Reviewer: Please check the headings

Author: What exactly do you want me to check?

Reviewer: You're using third level headings before second level headings

1. **Create a New Hardhat Project**:

Open your terminal and create a new project using Hardhat. You can initialize your Hardhat project by running: 

```
npx hardhat
```

2. **Project Structure**:  
   * After creating the project, your folder structure will look something like this:

```
├── contracts
│   └── YourSmartContract.sol
├── scripts
│   └── deploy.js
├── test
├── hardhat.config.js
├── package.json
└── node_modules/
```

### **Step 2: Add and Compile Your Smart Contract**

1. **Create the Smart Contract**:  

>    * Inside the contracts folder, create a new Solidity file (e.g., ContactInfo.sol) and write your smart contract code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Inside the contracts folder, create a new Solidity file (e.g., ContactInfo.sol), then copy and paste the code below.
```

> ```

Reviewer: Always add code block format

Author: This is not clear. Kindly specify exactly what you would like me to change.

This command compiles the project, generating an artifacts folder that contains the compiled data, including the ABI and bytecode for your contract.

```
├── artifacts
│   ├── build-info
│   │   └── f5da7ce57199502ee2303fea40...
│   └── contracts
│  │   └── ContactInfo.sol
│            ├── ContactInfo.dbg.json
│            └── ContactInfo.json
│   
├── cache
├── contracts
│   ├── ContactInfo.sol
│   └── Lock.sol
├── ignition
├── node_modules
├── test
├── typechain-types
├── .gitignore
├── hardhat.config.ts
├── package-lock.json
├── package.json
├── README.md
└── tsconfig.json
```

###
 **Explore the Artifacts Folder**:  
  * Inside the artifacts folder, you’ll find two subfolders:  
    * `build-info`  
    * `contracts`  
  > **Note**: Ensure that the contract’s file name matches the contract’s name in the Solidity code.  
- **Locate the ABI and Bytecode**:  
 
    :::info[Info]

     * **ABI**: The Application Binary Interface (ABI) defines the functions, events, and types in the contract, enabling interaction with it.  
     * **Bytecode**: The bytecode is the compiled code that will run on the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM). This code is deployed to the blockchain.  

    :::

>   * Inside the contracts folder, open your contract’s folder (**ContactInfo** in this case). You will see two files:  

Reviewer: This sentence is off

    * `ContactInfo.dbg.json`  
    * `ContactInfo.json`  
   
 
- **Copy the ABI and Bytecode**:  
  * Open the ContactInfo.json file. Locate and copy the abi and bytecode, which will be used for deployment.

<figure>
<img src="/img/guides/rsk-cli/artifacts-folder.png" alt="Hardhat Artifacts Folder"/>
  <figcaption>Hardhat Artifacts Folder (fig 1.)</figcaption>
</figure>

>  Save the ABI and bytecode in a new folder. You can name the folder anything, but for this tutorial, you will call it file. Inside this folder:

Reviewer: Tone is off, sounds too much like a command

> * Save the ABI as `abi.json`.  
> * Save the bytecode as `bytecode.bin` (make sure to copy the bytecode without quotes).

> You will use `.json` for the ABI file because the ABI is structured in JSON format, detailing the functions, events, and types used in the contract. This format is easy for applications to parse and use for interacting with the contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use `.json` for the ABI file because the ABI is structured in JSON format, detailing the functions, events, and types used in the contract. This format is easy for applications to parse and use for interacting with the contract.
```

Reviewer: Use the imperative you
